docs: release notes for v38 (#30384)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/usage/release-notes-for-major-versions.md

Specific:

- **bitbucket-server:** autodetect `gitAuthor`, if possible ([#29525](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/pull/29525))
- **config:** change from `boolean` to `enum` for `onboardingNoDeps`. Renovate now onboards repositories with no dependencies, with one exception: if you run Renovate in `autodiscover` mode then you must manually onboard Renovate for repos with no dependencies
- **config:** sanitize special characters from branch names for vulnerability type PRs. This may cause Renovate to autoclose/replace existing PRs
- **config:** change the order of `globalExtends` resolution, it is applied _first_ and remaining global config takes precedence
- **datasource/docker:** Docker Hub lookups prefers `hub.docker.com` over `index.docker.io`. To revert to the old behavior: set `RENOVATE_X_DOCKER_HUB_TAGS_DISABLE=true` in your env
- **git:** check _all_ commits on the branch to decide if the branch was modified ([#28225](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/pull/28225))
- **gitea:** use "bearer auth" instead of "token auth" to authenticate to the Gitea platform

> - **github:** if you run Renovate as a GitHub app then `platformCommit` is automatically enabled

Author: Do we want to mention that this "breaks" commit signing?

See:

- #30443

Reviewer: Commits will be signed via the platform itself

- **http:** remove `dnsCache`
- **logging:** you must set file logging via env, not in `config.js`

> - **manager/pep621:** change `depName` for `pep621` dependencies. This also changes the branch name for `pep621` updates, which may cause Renovate to autoclose and re-open some `pep621` PRs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **manager/pep621:** change `depName` for `pep621` dependencies. This also changes the branch name for `pep621` updates, which may cause Renovate to autoclose and re-open some `pep621` PRs. Further this roll changes into a single PR which have not been grouped before. 
```

- **npm:** for npm versions lower than 7, drop support for remediating vulnerabilities in _transitive_ dependencies
- **npm:** remove `RENOVATE_CACHE_NPM_MINUTES` ([#28715](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/pull/28715))
- **packageRules:** `matchPackageNames` (and related functions) no longer fall back to checking `depName`
- **packageRules:** `matchPackageNames` exact matches are now case-insensitive

### Commentary for 38

For maintainers to fill out.
You should probably explain:

> - The Node.js 20 change

Author: Quote from `@rarkins`:

> Chosen because of https://nodejs.org/en/blog/vulnerability/july-2024-security-releases

And quote from `@viceice` about "why we you not mandating just the minimum version of Node 20?":

> yes, and we decided to limit supported versions.

- #30376

Reviewer 3: we dropped node v18 support and decided to require a non-vulnerable node v20 version

Author: - When another Node.js 20 security update is released, will we update the `engines` field again?
- If we update the `engines` field, is that a `major`, `minor` or `patch` type release for the Renovate package?

> - The Docker `-slim` tags change

Reviewer 3: The slim tags are deprecated for a long time (since v37). They are replaced normal tags.
- `slim` -> `latest`
- `37-slim` -> `37`
- `37.440.0-slim` -> `37.440.0`

> - Why you dropped support for vulnerability PRs for `npm <7` for transitive dependencies (I think because it did not work reliably?)

Author: > Remove `transitiveRemediation` option, as it only works for deprecated npm versions.

- #27985

Reviewer 3: This only worked for npm <7 and this is only for transitive dependencies, which doesn't work on other managers either.

> - Why you set `platformCommit` for GitHub app users?

Reviewer 3: To have signed / verified commits, signing is done by github

> - Why logging must be set in env, not in `config.js`?

Reviewer 3: We moved `logLevel` to env long time ago because the logger is initialized before the config is read. So you miss log messages even if yo configure debug in config.

Now we only changed the `logFile...` to be env only too to follow same reasons.

> - Why the changes to `matchPackageNames`?

Reviewer 3: Which change? there are a lot changes about the matchers.

Reviewer 4: For example the **migration** docs from `matchPackagePrefixes` to `matchPackageNames`, many of our repos started failing on `renovate-config-validator --strict .github/renovate.json`, because it downloads v38 now and https://docs.renovatebot.com/release-notes-for-major-versions/ was the first place I looked for migration guide.

Reviewer 2: There are two big changes regarding matchers: 
1) `match*Prefixes` and `match*Patterns` are no longer separate fields, but rather are now replaced with logic inside of the elements
2) There are no separate `exclude*` fields, but rather they have to be negated with `!`

- **npm:** remove `RENOVATE_CACHE_NPM_MINUTES` ([#28715](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/pull/28715))
- **packageRules:** `matchPackageNames` (and related functions) no longer fall back to checking `depName`
- **packageRules:** `matchPackageNames` exact matches are now case-insensitive

### Commentary for 38

If you're self-hosting using Renovate's Docker `-slim` images, you need to now drop that suffix - Renovate's default tags such as `38.0.0` are "slim" by default.
There's no change if you're using the `-full` images.

If you're self-hosting without Renovate's Docker images (e.g. building your own image, or running from the `renovate` npm package), then note that Renovate now requires Node.js `^20.15.1` to run.
We dropped Node.js 18 and do not yet support Node.js 22 as it's non-LTS and not recommended for production.
We decided to require the current non-vulnerable Node.js release (`20.15.1`) or above although do not plan to bump this minimum Node.js v20 required version in any non-major releases.
Please ensure you are running the a secure version of Node.js v20 in future as sometimes Node.js vulnerabilities can impact Renovate.

> We recommend all users running as a GitHub App utilize `platformCommit` so have refactored it to default to enabled whenever a GitHub App token is detected.

Author: ```suggestion
#### If you use Mend's Renovate GitHub app

We recommend that all users running Renovate as a GitHub App use `platformCommit`.
Renovate now defaults to `platformCommit` is enabled, when Renovate detects a GitHub App token.
```

> For PATs, it's still recommend to use regular commits.

Author: ```suggestion
For PATs, we still recommend regular commits.
```

> File-based logging must be configured using environment variables (e.g. `LOG_FILE`) now and not in file or CLI (such as `logFile`).
> This to ensure that logging can begin at the start of Renovate execution and captures the parsing of configs too.

Author: ```suggestion
#### No more file-based logging

File-based logging must be configured using environment variables (e.g. `LOG_FILE`).
Do _not_ set logging in files or CLI (such as `logFile`).

This ensures that logging begins right when Renovate starts a run.
It also means Renovates logs how it parses the config.
```

Changes:

- Add title
- Rewrite

Please double check this for accuracy!

> Finally, we have consolidated may `matchPackage*` and `excludePackage*` options into `matchPackageNames` by enabling patterns.
> You can now do like `"matchPackageNames": "/^com.renovatebot/"` (regex) or `"matchPackageNames": "@renovate/*"` (glob) in addition to exact name matching.

Author: ```suggestion
#### Changes to package matching

Finally, we merged the `matchPackage*` and `excludePackage*` options into `matchPackageNames`.
We also enabled patterns for the `matchPackageNames` config option.

This means you can now use regex or glob patterns:

- `"matchPackageNames": "/^com.renovatebot/"` (regex)
- `"matchPackageNames": "@renovate/*"` (glob)

And of course, you can still use exact name matching.
```

Changes:

- Add title
- Use list for regex and glob examples
- Use simple words
- Split long sentences
